README.md, before:

# terraform-aws-docker-jenkins

A simple example of using `Terraform` to provision `Jenkins` (CI/CD) using its official `Docker` image in a `Docker` container on an `AWS` `EC2` instance.

Going beyond this example, it would be important to structure the `Terraform` files and think carefully about where secrets were stored.


## Instructions for use

1) Ensure you have a valid `AWS` account, including an `access_key` and `secret_key` for a user with permissions to create the necessary resources.  
If you don't have an `AWS` account you can sign up to the Free Tier here: https://aws.amazon.com/free/  
Export your `access_key` and `secret_key`:  
```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="access_key"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<secret_key>"
```

2) Download `Terraform` if you don't already have it installed:  
https://www.terraform.io/intro/getting-started/install.html

3) Populate `terraform.tfvars` with relevant values, using `terraform.tfvars.example` as an example.

4) Create a `key pair` for use on the `AWS` `EC2` instances and put the `public`/`private` keys in `.private/aws-key.pem.pub`/`.private/aws-key.pem`.

5) Use `Terraform` to check how the services will be provisioned:  
```
terraform plan
```

6) Provision using `Terraform`:  
```
terraform apply
```

7) Check the output of the provison and access the server via SSH and/or your web browser.  
```
## Provision output...
...
Apply complete! Resources: 11 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

aws_instance-ci-public_dns = <hostname>.compute-1.amazonaws.com
aws_platform-name = okappy-global-us-east-1
...
```

```
## Access server via SSH
ssh ubuntu@<hostname>.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

```
## Access server via HTTP
lynx http://<hostname>.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8080/
```

8) If there is a need to re-stage the server at any point, `taint` and re-`apply` via `Terraform`:  
```
terraform taint aws_instance.ci
terraform apply
```

Commit message:

Add "behat-example" example Jenkins job to README.

README.md, after:

# terraform-aws-docker-jenkins

A simple example of using `Terraform` to provision `Jenkins` (CI/CD) using its official `Docker` image in a `Docker` container on an `AWS` `EC2` instance.

Going beyond this example, it would be important to structure the `Terraform` files and think carefully about where secrets were stored.


## Instructions for use

1) Ensure you have a valid `AWS` account, including an `access_key` and `secret_key` for a user with permissions to create the necessary resources.  
If you don't have an `AWS` account you can sign up to the Free Tier here: https://aws.amazon.com/free/  
Export your `access_key` and `secret_key`:  
```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="access_key"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<secret_key>"
```

2) Download `Terraform` if you don't already have it installed:  
https://www.terraform.io/intro/getting-started/install.html

3) Populate `terraform.tfvars` with relevant values, using `terraform.tfvars.example` as an example.

4) Create a `key pair` for use on the `AWS` `EC2` instances and put the `public`/`private` keys in `.private/aws-key.pem.pub`/`.private/aws-key.pem`.

5) Use `Terraform` to check how the services will be provisioned:  
```
terraform plan
```

6) Provision using `Terraform`:  
```
terraform apply
```

7) Check the output of the provison and access the server via SSH and/or your web browser.  
```
## Provision output...
...
Apply complete! Resources: 11 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

aws_instance-ci-public_dns = <hostname>.compute-1.amazonaws.com
aws_platform-name = okappy-global-us-east-1
...
```

```
## Access server via SSH
ssh ubuntu@<hostname>.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

```
## Access server via HTTP
lynx http://<hostname>.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8080/
```

8) Try out Jenkins, by adding a `Multibranch Pipeline` job such as: https://github.com/zhibek/behat-example.git  
This job type relies on the `Jenkinsfile` inside the `git` repo, therefore no additional config is required in the `Jenkins` UI.

9) If there is a need to re-stage the server at any point, `taint` and re-`apply` via `Terraform`:  
```
terraform taint aws_instance.ci
terraform apply
```
